## Overview
Being able to think about what others are thinking (Theory of Mind) is an essential quality in both cooperative and competitive social situations. Humans acquire this "mentalising" ability early in development. However over-mentalising could lead to disastrous results due to the high depth of recursive thinking levels. Recursive Theory of Mind puts limited agents in a disadvantageous position where they could be exploited by adequate agents. This project builds on the work of χ-IPOMDP, a framework used to detect deceptions and switch to out-of-belief policy without resorting to a high Depth of Mentalising (DOM). I aim to study when recursive theory of mind breaks-building a toy χ-IPOMDP agent that performs recursive inferences until their opponent’s actions violate their expectations.

## Background
Mental state inference is grounded in perception and behavior observation in a spatial environment (Baker et al., 2017). The Bayesian Theory of Mind (BToM) provides a solid framework for modeling humans as rationally bounded agents in the complex social world. Loads of theory of mind research have proved the benefits of how it helps to understand the context and intentions. However, in certain circumstances, a high level of theory of mind could lead to malfunctioning (Alon et al., 2023). An agent with a deeper level of recursive mental reasoning naturally displays a competitive advantage over an agent with a lower level of reasoning, which could lead to exploitation. Alon et al. (2024) proposed a mechanistic framework called χ-IPOMDP to mitigate this potential deception and exploitation, which is achieved by detecting the threshold where the behaviors of the more sophisticated agent go against the expectations. This project will expand on this work and implement χ-IPOMDP algorithms in a toy modeling example. This project does not aim to build a full-fledged IPOMDP planner; it is a demonstration of the χ-mechanism and the stopping threshold.

## Risks
Building a toy simulation entails a certain level of simplification. The minimal environment may not be sufficient to represent the high level of mentalising. Some foreseeable challenges include how to denote the actions and rewards symbolically and how to integrate them into the system.
